---
title: "2. Create a simple Chart"
weight: 2
---

In this lab we're going to create our very first Helm Chart and deploy it.

## Task 1

First let's create our chart:

```bash
helm create mychart
```

You'll now find a `mychart` directory with the newly created chart. It already is a valid and fully functional chart which deploys nginx. Have a look at the generated files and their content. For an explanation of the files, visit the [Helm Developer Documentation](https://docs.helm.sh/developing_charts/#the-chart-file-structure). In a later section you'll find all the information about Helm templates.


{{< onlyWhen mobi >}}
Because you cannot pull the `nginx` container image on your cluster, you have to use the `docker-registry.mobicorp.ch/puzzle/k8s/kurs/nginx` container image. Change your now `values.yaml` to match the following:

```yaml
[...]
image:
  repository: docker-registry.mobicorp.ch/puzzle/k8s/kurs/nginx
  tag: stable
  pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
[...]
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}

## Task 2

Before actually deploying our generated chart, we can check the (to be) generated Kubernetes resources with the following command:

{{< onlyWhen helm2 >}}
```bash
helm install --dry-run --debug --namespace [NAMESPACE] --tiller-namespace [NAMESPACE] ./mychart
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}

{{< onlyWhen helm3 >}}
```bash
helm install --dry-run --debug --namespace [NAMESPACE] myfirstrelease ./mychart
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}


Finally, the following command creates a new Release with the Helm Chart and deploys the application:

{{< onlyWhen helm2 >}}
```bash
helm install --name myfirstrelease --namespace [NAMESPACE] --tiller-namespace [NAMESPACE] ./mychart 
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}

{{< onlyWhen helm3 >}}
```bash
helm install --namespace [NAMESPACE] myfirstrelease ./mychart
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}

The `--name` parameter allows you to give your Release a name, it is not mandatory though, the name will be autogenerated if no explicit name is provided.

With `kubectl get pods --namespace [NAMESPACE]` you should see a new pod. You can list the newly created Helm release with the following command:

{{< onlyWhen helm2 >}}
```bash
helm ls --namespace [NAMESPACE] --tiller-namespace [NAMESPACE]
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}

{{< onlyWhen helm3 >}}
```bash
helm ls --namespace [NAMESPACE]
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}


{{% alert title="Tip" color="warning" %}}
You can omit the parameter `--tiller-namespace [NAMESPACE]` if you set the following environment variable: `export TILLER_NAMESPACE=[NAMESPACE]`
{{% /alert %}}

## Task 3

Our freshly deployed nginx is not yet accessible from outside of the Kubernetes cluster. To expose it, we have to change the service type to `NodePort`.
Search now for the Service type definition in your Chart and make the change.

### Solution
A look into the file `templates/service.yaml` reveals that the service type is set by value:
```yaml
[...]
spec:
  type: {{ .Values.service.type }}
[...]
```

Thus we need to change this value inside our `values.yaml` file:
```yaml
[...]
service:
  type: NodePort
  port: 80
[...]
```

Apply the change by upgrading our release:

{{< onlyWhen helm2 >}}
```bash
helm upgrade myfirstrelease --namespace [NAMESPACE] --tiller-namespace [NAMESPACE] ./mychart
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}

{{< onlyWhen helm3 >}}
```bash
helm upgrade --namespace [NAMESPACE] myfirstrelease ./mychart 
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}


As soon as the service has a NodePort you will see in the output of the following command (as we use `--watch` you have to terminate the command with CTRL-C):

```bash
kubectl get svc --namespace [NAMESPACE] --watch
```

nginx is now available at the given NodePort and should display a welcome page when accessing it with `curl` or your browser of choice.

{{% alert title="Tip" color="warning" %}}
Use `kubectl get node -o wide` to get a node ip address. Remember, [NodePort's](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#nodeport) are open on any kubernetes node
{{% /alert %}}

{{< onlyWhen mobi >}}
In case you do not have permissions to list the nodes with `kubectl get node` simply use `kubedev-worker-00bb7020c0eb.phoenix.mobicorp.test` as the node address to access the welcome page.
{{< /onlyWhen >}}

## Task 4

An alternative way to set or overwrite values for charts we want to deploy is the `--set name=value` parameter. `--set name=value` can be used when installing a Chart as well as upgrading.

Update the replica count of your nginx Deployment to 2 using `--set name=value`


### Solution

{{< onlyWhen helm2 >}}
```bash
helm upgrade myfirstrelease --set replicaCount=2 --namespace [NAMESPACE] --tiller-namespace [NAMESPACE] ./mychart
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}

{{< onlyWhen helm3 >}}
```bash
helm upgrade --namespace [NAMESPACE] --set replicaCount=2 myfirstrelease ./mychart 
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}

Values that have been set using `--set` can be reset by helm upgrade with `--reset-values`.


## Task 5

To remove an application, simply remove the Helm Release with the following command:

{{< onlyWhen helm2 >}}
```bash
helm delete myfirstrelease --tiller-namespace [NAMESPACE]
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}

{{< onlyWhen helm3 >}}
```bash
helm delete myfirstrelease
```
{{< /onlyWhen >}}

Do this with our deployed release. With `kubectl get pods --namespace [NAMESPACE]` you should no longer see your application pod.
